My name is Joshua Johnston and I’m passionate about using data, machine learning, Deep Learning modelling and  Agentic AI to help people and enterprise thrive in our modern world.
Ive been working in the corporate for 7 years using data analytics, machine learing and automation across a variety of domains such as Programatic Media, Advertising, Travel, Finance and Customer experience.
The first 5 years was as a Media Trader/Analyst at MiQ: My responsibilities were to buy ad impressions on the open ad exchange in a programmatic environment (The Trade Desk, Google Ad exchange ect). I was tasked to create strategies based on different advertisers needs using data analysis to identify where to direct the money and create an intial strategy. Then once the campaign was live i would use the raw data (impressions, clicks, conversions, ad spent on strategies ect) to optimise the performance of the campaign and im prove KPI's like click through rate and conversion rate. And then i was tasked to report back to clients on performance (building strong data communication skills. During my time here i built my skills in SQL and python and became programming, becoming passionate at automating tasks as well as building better metrics for analyzing and optimizing campaigns. Platforms i used for this include Databricks, and AWS, and languages such as PySpark, Python and SQL. 

During my time at MiQ i became more interested in AI/Machine learning and began a Masters of Data Science degree where i honed my skills in ML fundamentals, Deep learning fundamentals (forward and backward propagation), and other data science techniques.

The most recent 2 years Ive been working at Luxury Escapes as a Machine Learning/Data Analyst. This experience is the MOST IMPORTANT to the roles that im looking for at the moment, so this needs to be the bulk/focus of the resume. In my role i was required to work with remote ML engineers in Israel helping to Analyze and create visualizations for various ML initiatives. These would include AB tests where i was required to accurately visualise the performance of these initiatives allowing the engineers to make the needed tweeks to their ML scripts. Creating an accurate dashboard (using BigQuery, Tableau and Looker Studio) which constantly tracked the performance of test and control audiences allowed us to achieve an up lift in conversion rates my 23%. I was also able to analyse customer behavior and provide insights to the company showing how customer behavior changed in the lead up to a purchase of a product (email click rates, product view rates, abandon carts ect) which allowed us to build cohorts of "high intent" customers and provide them with appropriate and timely promos. As a result i earned the "Star Award" which is a quarterly award handed to 8 people in a company of over 300. 
I became quickly known for my speed and expertise in SQL, providing and debugging code very quickly which was very helpful to C-suit and product managers who needed quick answers. In addition to my SQL ana analytics work, I became quite strong in python, allowing me to create end-to-end solutions via API's such as Google API and OpenAI API. I created a dashboard which took raw customer call transcripts from BiqQuery tables, converted them into structured data tables with features like "Offer Type", "Category", "Sentiment", "Short Summary", "Key Issue Discussed" and "Vertical", pass this back to bigquery and display via Looker. This allowed Customer service managers to find monitor what customers were most concerned with, what properties and offers had issues, the general sentiment of callers, as well as many other insights and address them much faster. I also further improved my engineering skills building my own module called "Presentation" which is a Google Presentation module. Google Presentation doesn't have a premade module (like Google Sheets does) and i built a custom class to address this, which simplified complicated API requests into simple methods like Presentation.add_slide, Presentation.add_table (git link https://github.com/JoshuaJohnston371/analytics-scripts/blob/main/wbr_presentation_builder/models/presentation.py). The purpose for this was to automate a system that built a weekly business review which became a staple meeting each week where all product managers would give updates on product performance. This end to end workflow significantly cut down reporting time by at least 6 hours a week as well as standardized a company overview for better decision making. 
Another significant achievement on the analytics side was a "room matching" analysis. The context for this is that we had a primary supplier of hotels "Expedia" and we later added another supplier called "Hotel Beds" which offered the same rooms but at different prices. When a customer booked, we would select the best rates, but the issue: it needed to be the same room (or there would be obvious customer inconvenience concequences). We hired a company to verify alot of the rooms, but they werent able to verify all of them. The task for me: how can we match the unverified rooms. Using different regex and similarity scoring techniques i was able to rank the key differences between unverified room matches to find words that were different between the 2 suppliers but added no information that the rooms were different. Turns out the word "room" was the biggest cause of unverified rooms, amoungst others like double/twin, 1/one, 2/two ect. As a result of my analysis we were able to verify ~50,000 more rooms leading to the largest spike in incremental margin we had seen since the begining of the project (~$50K). 

Im currently furthering my education in Data Science which i will complete in 2026. Im also very excited by the application of Agentic AI Engineering which im currently in the process of completing via Udemy. I also love to build things in general, Ive built a fully functional web app for my family and friends footy tipping comp call the tuross-tipping-comp-app (on my git hub). This taught me not only about web building using flask and vibe coding the html (which i can read but im quite a beginner still), but also the process to working with end users and making the user experience as easy/fun/interesting as possible, as well as Other Web services like Servers and Cron Jobs.
